---
title: Section 4
objectid: sec4s
---
Among experimental treatments for homosexuality, the most commonly practiced was called aversion therapy. Aversion therapy, at its most damaging, subjected patients to electric shocks when they exhibited any response to images or sensations that confirmed their same-sex attraction. Chemical emetics were also used, to induce nausea or vomiting, in attempts to conflate the pain of this experience with any expression of homosexuality. The result of these treatments, while often documented by practitioners themselves as resulting in short-term successes, relied so heavily on shame as a motivator that they are now understood to have produced longer term psychiatric conditions such as anxiety, depression, and PTSD. Some of these treatments are documented in "Hidden from History? A Brief Modern History of the Psychiatric "Treatment" of Lesbian and Bisexual Women in England":

> Four cases of "anticipatory avoidance therapy" were recorded at Crumpsall Hospital in north Manchester between 1962 and 1967 (MacCulloch and Feldman, 1967; Feldman and MacCulloch, 1971). This was a variant of aversion therapy, involving mild electric shocks, pioneered by psychologists in the hospital's department of psychiatry, with the full support of the medical director… Although these were often reported as "successful" in the literature, women reported that it made them feel "terrible" for months, and that although it resulted in them not being able to act on their attraction to women, at least for a period of time, it did not make them more attracted to men. We also found an unverified account of a woman dying by suicide following aversion therapy in a hospital in the north east of England (Carr, 290).

In 1952, the first Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) was released by the American Psychiatric Association (Queer Diagnoses, 389). This was intended to be a comprehensive listing of psychiatric diagnoses, and in this original issue, homosexuality was listed as a sociopathic personality disturbance and sexual deviation. At this point, treatments for homosexuality had been incorporated into many psychiatric hospitals and treatment regimens. Grouped together with broader personality disorders, homosexuality was subjected to the larger "corrective" moral frameworks in the postwar years.  In her book _Private Practices_, Naoko Wake writes:

> Psychologists, sociologists and anthropologists shared an urgent sense of responsibility– that scientists must help the nation to use victory in the war to reestablish social order and create promises of a better future.  In their discussion, the dissociation of families, changing gender relationships, and "immature" personalities were of central concern (195).

With this urgent call for moral restoration, the stage was set for both the political persecution (which would come with the Cold War,) and a dangerously patronizing medical view of homosexuality.
