---
title: Section 7
objectid: sec7
---
There is a painting in the family of Dot’s oldest three children, in winter coats, toques and mittens, in the snow.  They look serene, my grandmother’s arms are around her sister and brother, looking every bit the attentive eldest.  If we can assume love in a family, I see it there, in that painting, perhaps even in the fact of that painting, which my great-grandmother commissioned, as something to mark this moment in her children’s lives, something concrete that she could offer them, in place of a tenderness that challenged, maybe evaded her. They look like ghost children, the three of them, emerging in soft colors, an indistinct forest in the background.  

The painting is by Charles de Belle, a Hungarian-Canadian painter who gravitated toward portraits of children, looking serious, pink-cheeked and wispy.  In the family, there is a later portrait of my grandmother alone, and another of Dot’s home, red-roofed, on the bank of the St-Laurent. This evidence of privilege is sprinkled throughout our family homes \- paintings, furs, silverware.  What it amounts to is unclear \- my aunt, married into the family, calls us secret aristocrats, with some sarcasm.  On the phone, my uncle tells me: *It was unrealistic, it wasn’t anchored in reality, we were able to perpetuate this fantasy that we were the Kennedys.*  

I don’t agree, that it was a fantasy. Maybe our influence was inflated, but often privilege belongs to those who are perceived to have it, and who perceive themselves to deserve it. We had it in spades – we looked the part; we felt the part – regardless of the particulars of our circumstances. My grandmother sold jams at craft fairs from her minivan, raised chinchillas for fur in her basement, hounded us to buy into her multi-level marketing schemes, her house full of old papers, empty bottles and cat shit. Yet there was something she imparted, a fantasy of our worth, that was not so easily spent as Dot’s fortune.  