---
---
CHESTNUT LODGE
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND
November 20, 1970

Mrs. Helen E. Hyde
20679 Lakeshore Road
Baie d' Urfe
Quebec, Canada

Dear Mrs. Hyde:

This is to let you know that Gaetane continues to be making good use of the treatment situation and of the therapy offered to her at Chestnut Lodge. Additionally, she has made many friends among patients and staff and keeps busy with a variety of activities. She has also begun some tutoring with our educational consultant, the goal being for her to take the high school equivalency test and obtain her diploma as soon as she seems ready and eligible for this.

As you know, she arrived at the Lodge with a very meager wardrobe. She has been doing some shopping and more and more is selecting softer feminine things. The question of orthodontia which Mrs. Miller raised when she was here has not yet been settled. Our dentist states that there is a definite need but Gaetane has not yet decided if she wishes to undertake this at this time. The dentist did assure us that the work could be done at any time, even in her more adult years.

Gaetane receives almost weekly letters from her mother and these please her very much although she does not respond too frequently. We have learned of no definite plans for mother to visit but word has come that her older brother will be here at Christmas. Perhaps you know more about this than I do.

In summary, therefore, we find her a delightful young lady who is working hard at solving her problems in living.

I will continue to be in touch with you from time to time and do not hesitate to contact me whenever you feel the need to.

Sincerely yours,

(Mrs.) Helene Mayock, A.C.S.W.
Psychiatric Social Worker

HM:vam
cc: Mrs. Miller