---
---

"Dear Grandmother,

	I sort of noticed a certain coldness about your letter, as if you were mad about something.  If it is about me not writing, I have written an awful lot of letters which never got sent.  I’ll try to send this one, though.  Please tell me what it is though.  
	I would like to know what your expectations of me are and what you are going to do to me if I don’t live up to them.  The other night, I was hitchhiking peacefully with my friends, when the police grabbed me and threw me in a cell.  It is apparently because of a warrant Nell put out.  I wonder how she would enjoy spending a night in a cell.  I hope the warrant is now off.  
	We are looking for a home, Rosamunde, Peter, Mary and me each in **our own little house.**  Prince George isn’t it.  I haven’t seen Mary since I came back when Rosamunde and me came up she had just left.  Peter is God knows where too.  I forgot to get his address when I left and couldn’t see him in time to tell him, so I phoned and somebody said they’d give him the message, but if he knew I was here, he would I know have written or come or something.  The next time I go into Vancouver I guess I’ll see him.  But I sure wish he and Mary were here now.  
	I have not seen Wendy, maybe when you write, you could give me their address.  I couldn’t find it in the phone book.  
	**I also would like to know how much you are willing to give me if I give you nothing but a thankful heart in return.  And probably not even write to tell you about it.**  
Much love,  
	jittoKV  
P.s. My best friend of friends Kanzan respectably acknowledges your thanks for her letter but wishes you had answered her personally.

*Enclosed \- a drafted letter in response: Aug 28 ‘71*

Dear Gaëtane,  
I was happy to receive your letter with its accounts of your feelings and activities.  
1\. **What do I expect of you?  You are no longer a child and you must work out for yourself what you most want your future life to be.  Whatever you decide will not make me love you any less.**  I may think that some of the things you do are not \_\_\_\_\_ but this will not alter my affection for you.  We all make mistakes and as long as we learn from them that is the main thing.  There are always ups and downs in life but if you can work out an adult life which will, on balance, satisfy your needs and aspirations & prove productive in the direction most suited to your brains and abilities and imaginative gifts (artistically, for instance,) nothing will please me more than for you to find happiness in your life.  
I think we all need to go back to nature sometimes.  I am at Ivry for a few days with Dora and Huntly.  It is overcast & rainy but still beautiful & restful.  Jack’s father died & we attended his funeral on Wed. It was a blessed release as he had been ill for a long time.  
	Wendy is looking for a new apt so the best way to contact her at the moment is through her in-laws.  
	Mrs. Sam D Cosco  
	℅ S. Cosco  
	3712 W 23rd Ave  
	Vancouver BC  
Tel: 228-8326  
	**I am sorry to hear of your being picked up by the police, but naturally when you vanished from Chestnut Lodge the police were notified and perhaps the ones who picked you up were not able to check until the next day that you were married.**  
	By the way the Royal Trust received from Chestnut Lodge one or two notices or cheques in refund of books you had ordered.  I gave them your address (at the commune) and asked them to send them to you.  Did you receive them?  
	Nell is taking Lorne to a school in Texas next week & Martin will soon be gone back to England.  Did I tell you that Olivia sent me a very nice photo of herself & a mischievous looking picture of Stephen?"
