---
---

Friday Oct 1st, Surrey  

Dear Grandmother,  

I am dead tired after getting back from a day’s hard work at the potato farm which is all I have been able to find.  The pay is horrible.  I have earned 4$ today working as hard as I could.  Mary had a 2 week babysitting job but at this rate, I doubt we could ever pay you back.  So I have another deal to make with you and mother.  

Would you buy the farm in her name as an investment which she could sell in a few years at a good profit?  Mother would have to agree too of course but you could leave it to her as an inheritance thing now before dec anyway and get rid of at least part of the capitals gains tax (there would still be some when she sells the place) and also make a profit on it.  

I would care take it for her and as rent pay the tax however much it is.  You see, I want to paint and make and create things.  The only job that I would get any pleasure doing and which is within my means, is that.  But I could never earn enough money that way to pay for a farm.  

I want you to know that I am not just being impossible or whatever.  I am trying hard to organize my life in a workable way.  Part of it is that I don’t feel ready to own a farm but would sure like to live on.  On land anyway.  

Also I am not sure how permanent I am: that I want to live in B.C. for ever and ever but I would like to travel and have a place to go back to.  

We thought we had found the place but hadn’t.  Right now we are investigating a 200 acre farm for 25,000 60 cleared near very hot Cache Creek with lots of water.  It has a house, a creek and 2 cabins.  

Also, do you think you could send me an allowance?  35$/month maybe for food, paints and I have a doctors bill this month.  I gashed my arm quite badly on some glass.  If I needed anything else I’ll just earn it.   

I think that’s all I have on my list of things to tell you.   
If you see Nell ask her to forward my stuff from Maryland.  

Much love,  

Gaëtane
