# While religious moral conventions had condemned homosexuality as sinful since the first millennium AD, the idea of deeming homosexuality to be a pathological condition was advanced by Richard von Krafft-Ebbing in the late 1800's. Krafft-Ebbing, a Darwinian psychiatrist, considered homosexuality to be a form of psychopathology, a disease that worked against the interests of reproduction. In his essay "Queer Diagnoses Revisited," Jack Drescher writes:

> The now-discredited degeneracy theory that informed Krafft-Ebing's approach was nevertheless influential in disseminating among medical and scientific communities both the term 'homosexual' as well as the conceptualization of homosexuality as a psychiatric disorder. In an ironic twist of the modern 'born gay' theory, Krafft-Ebing believed that although one might be born with a homosexual predisposition, such inclinations should be considered a congenital disease (Queer Diagnoses, 386).

While many psychiatrists in the century that followed had differing views on why humans exhibited a range of sexual interests, the notion of homo- or bisexuality as a pathology to be cured had gained a foothold in psychiatric discourse. Aside from the notable exception of Sigmund Freud, who wrote: "Homosexuality is assuredly no advantage, but it is nothing to be ashamed of, no vice, no degradation; it cannot be classified as an illness; we consider it to be a variation of the sexual function, produced by a certain arrest of sexual development" (Freud), homosexuality in the 19th and early 20th century was characterized as a mental illness and a medical aberration.

In this formative era of psychiatric practice, much effort was put into uncovering the root cause of homosexuality. This, of course, was informed by the central idea of homosexuality as an identifiable error in the human composition. Havelock Ellis and John Raymond Symmons published a book called "Sexual Inversion," which forwarded the notion that homosexuality was a congenital condition rooted in evolutionary variance.

> Specifically, he argued that sexual inversion could be compared to color blindness… and to instinctive criminality…Humans had been born with a congenital, naturally varying physiological response to sensory input… For the sexual invert, the person was born with a tumescent response to the sights, sounds, and smells normally reserved for the other sex (Alaniz, 19).

This line of thought set the psychiatric field up for a grim era of experimentation. Testing the alteration of hormones and the physical body itself, practitioners and theorists attempted to trace the evolutionary characteristics that determined a person's sexual orientation, with the goal of reversing this supposed defect.
