# Barbara Gittings, a gay rights activist during the 1960s and 1970s who worked to redefine homosexuality as natural, writes:

> "It's difficult to explain to anyone who didn't live through that time how much homosexuality was under the thumb of psychiatry. The sickness label was an albatross around the neck of our early gay rights groups… Some brutal methods for curing us in vogue at one time included incarceration in mental hospitals, lobotomies, and aversion therapy. The latter is where they show you pictures of the "wrong" kind of sexual partner and give you an electric shock, and then show you pictures of a person you _should_ like and play nice music to persuade you to change your choice of sexual partner. There were of course other efforts at curing homosexuality that were less physically brutal, including psychotherapy, but they all thrived on the notion that homosexuality was bad for the individual and for society and should be fixed (American Psychiatry, _xv_).

As the gay rights movement gained traction in the 1950s and 1960s, the American Psychiatric Association came under pressure to soften their framing of homosexuality as a disease. Prominent gay figures and activists were beginning to move the dial of public opinion. While they were still seen as outsiders, and deeply disapproved of in many circles, the growing movement to recognize homosexuality as a natural possibility on the spectrum of human sexuality could no longer be ignored.

In 1973, under pressure from these gay rights movements, the DSM removed homosexuality itself from its listings, leaving in its place something called "sexual orientation disturbance," the condition of experiencing homosexual desire while simultaneously wishing not to experience it (Queer Diagnoses, 387). Despite these diagnostic changes, however, many psychiatrists who had integrated the notion of homosexuality as a pathology into their daily practice, continued to treat it as such.

It is likely impossible to measure the effects of this era of "treatment." Since any public awareness of a person's homosexuality could deeply jeopardize their safety and positions in society, both patients and providers were motivated to couch any treatments for homosexuality in euphemistic language.

As language and social norms inevitably shift, I find myself unsure of how to analyze the historical context of my cousin's experience. I take her story at her word, and believe she was subjected to a kind of violence that left deep damage. But there is a complicated privilege at the heart of her story too. Chestnut Lodge was famous for its pioneering psychological treatments.  Committed to psychoanalysis, rather than the increasingly outdated shock treatments and chemical emetics, the facility was likely doing less harm than many others of the era.  Documented in the article "Psychiatry wars: the lawsuit that put psychoanalysis on trial," Rachel Aviv writes:

> Dexter Bullard, the director of Chestnut Lodge for nearly 40 years, believed that the Lodge could do what no other American hospital had done: psychoanalyze every patient, no matter how far removed from reality they were (as long as they could pay the admission fee). The possibilities of pharmacology did not interest him. His goal was to create an institution that expressed the ethos of the analyst's office. If a patient appeared beyond the realm of understanding, the institution had failed – its doctors weren't trying hard enough to see the world through the patient's eyes.
