# Chestnut Lodge was a private hospital where people with influence would send family members to be treated discreetly. The administrators of this institution were very aware of what should and should not be put in writing. Long-affiliated with the CIA, this hospital was rumored to have turned down both Judy Garland and Marilyn Monroe in favor of maintaining their low-profile (Plante). The influence of their government affiliations offered protection to people who did not, especially in the wake of the Lavender Scare and McCarthyism, want to be yoked to a diagnosis of homosexuality. Though attempts have been made to track down the medical records of the hospital, there has been no public success in this search.  The facility itself closed in 2001, the building burned to the ground in 2009 (Aviv).  According to the archivist for Montgomery County, the records were either destroyed, burned, or remain privately kept by the Bullard estate (Hedlund).

A towering brick building with sweeping lawns and chestnut groves, Chestnut Lodge was, Gaëtane told me, exactly how you would imagine a psychiatric hospital to be at the time. White-coated orderlies walked around the grounds with jangling rings of keys. Access to the wider grounds had to be earned through good behavior. _It broke my mind_, Gaëtane tells me.

**        	**The level of psychiatric damage and medical gaslighting that happened in these facilities, under the auspices of care and treatment, can't really be calculated. There is little record of Gaëtane's treatment at Chestnut Lodge, aside from letters they sent to our family. _She has been doing some shopping and more and more is selecting softer feminine things, _they write. _We find her a delightful young lady who is working hard at solving her problem in living._ They do not use the word homosexual, or lesbian.  They only allude to her presentation, her trouble finding a foothold in her own world.

Ruth Simkin, a young patient at Chestnut Lodge who went on to become a doctor, wrote a memoir, many years after her treatment.  She recounts her psychiatrist simply denying her pronouncement of being a lesbian. On the scale of damaging treatments towards these admissions, this ranks low, but it serves as an interesting acknowledgement of Chestnut Lodge’s strategy for dealing with queer patients. Simkin had originally been placed in treatment for epilepsy, at the time also considered a mental illness.  This meant that she was, however inadvertently, experiencing a kind of compounded gaslighting.  The message she received was that both her epilepsy and her queerness were problems of the mind that could be treated, through talk therapy and willpower (Simkin, 100).  Any lack of success was considered a personal failure.

At the end of her memoir, Simkin writes: “For all the decades that I was a physician, I never forgot my past.  I love medicine and I love being a doctor, but being a physician meant one important thing to me in particular: it meant that I now had the power.  I had the power and no one, no one, was ever going to lock me up again” (214).

I struggled to find personal accounts of people who were treated, at Chestnut Lodge or elsewhere, for this kind of pathologized queerness.  There are medical records, and treatises, but few personal accounts.  I wonder where those stories are held.